# 30 Minute Film Festival Website

When we were first tasks with the project to complete a whole short film, including brainstorming, shooting, and editing, in just 30 minutes, I had no idea what to do. However, as the clock kept on ticking, Sabrina and I decided that we should create a short film, decidated to the many of the campus cats that we have here at NYUAD. In the scortching heat of Abu Dhabi, we went outside and began filming the few felines that we had encountered, improvising the possible scenes as we went.

## Project Description

After creating the intial video, I began brainstorming possibilities of how to display the film that we had made, and what is the right design for the website. After all, I am still new to front-end development, however, I decided to challenge myself in certain aspects. When designing the wireframe for the website, I had envisioned a simple yet effective and communicative design, with no extra "fluff." I wanted the opening frame of the website however, feel as if the end user is entering an interesting and modern designed artistic website. I decided to include a sort of "splash screen" which would prompt the users to interact with the website before they even get to the main content. I believe that this is an effective strategy at catching or hooking the audiences attention, as we are usually accustomed to see a lot of information throw at us at once when we open the website. This element, allows for the users to slow down their browsing, and take a few more moments before delving into the content. Similarly, I attempted to create a minimalistic structure and design for the website, including only the most essential pieces of information that I wanted to communicate. Additionally, I had chosen a simple color pallette, that makes the whole website more aesthetically pleasing.

## Process

As I began crafting the website, I had decided to create the entire website from scratch, fully writing my own HTML, CSS, and JS markups/code. Despite not having much experience with any of these languages, I decided to challenge myself and got to work. I began by creating the basic HTML skeleton of the page following some of the conventions that I had heard about before. I attempted to give each element an appropriate class that would help me stay organized in my CSS, and more. As I kept adding content, I soon realized how overwhelming this might be after all, and it took me some time to realize what is actually going on. I decided to first finish the intro animation (splash screen), which thankfully worked out really well. Nonetheless, while I was able to implement the intro screen I envisioned in the wireframe, I decided that perhaps it would be better to just have a "welcoming" splash screen that displays a cat face icon, representary of the theme of the website. Additionally, I broke up the website into three mains sections, which I spent too much time trying to get working propely (home, about, contact). With that, I moved on into styling each section individually, and made sure that everything looked well. Due to my minimal but effective knowledge in HTML, CSS, and JS, I believe that working on this project, despite being very challenging, was a very valuable learning component.

## Reflection/Implementation

Ultimately, I am satisfied with the website that I had created. I believe it is safe to say that there is a strong resemblance to the wireframe, and I am glad I was able to implement most of the features and components I wanted to. I also believe that I should have attempted to manage my time working on this project better, since after you take some time off, coming back to hundreds of lines of CSS and forgetting what classes do what and where was difficult for me. One thing I am thankful for was for using a good naming convention, as well as organizing my CSS, since this allowed me to easily find and navigate the various elements that I was styling. Additionally, I found it fun to create my own little artistic elements (such as the cat outline and cat footprint background) to the website. I also think that the background plays an important role in creating a downwards flow for the end user, which I found to be a nice element. Ultimately, I believe that I was able to grasp the vibe and story of the video we created quite well in my design and implementation of the website.
